And down this goes.
Whew! I'm exhausted.
Hey, honey!
Whoa, what is it? You don't need to shout.
Quiet! Just get over here!
Good grief. What now?
Kita-chan?!
Umamusume
Pretty Derby
Episode 12
\hKitasan Black
Thank you all for coming today.
I asked my trainer to arrange this
so that I can announce
a decision that I've recently made.
I, Kitasan Black, after finishing
my races at the end of this year,
will be retiring from the Twinkle Series.
It's my belief that I've run in a lot
of races without any major injuries.
No matter how much I practiced, or how much
I raced, I never seemed to get exhausted.
But recently, at the Fall Tennoushou,
I could feel it clearly.
My body is no longer at its peak.
I believe I'll only be able to run to my
satisfaction until the end of this year,
which is what led me to this decision.
Do you have any comments on your
race schedule for the future?
I'm going to enter the Japan Cup. And then...
My last run will be at the Arima Kinen.
I intend to give everything
that I have left so that these
will be great races that I won't regret.
I hope you'll watch until the end.
But why?! She won the Fall Tennoushou!
There are things that only
the person running can feel.
Kita-chan must've felt something like that.
Choosing her moment to step out of
the spotlight and announcing it...
But in spite of that, she makes an attempt
to conquer the Fall Senior Triple Crown
in an effort to solidify her
legacy as the strongest.
Whether it was intentional or not,
she has a knack for putting her
most charismatic face forward.
I think this might call for paying more than
a little attention to how she runs
R
o
y
c
e
until the very end.
I see.
Everyone, thank you so much.
Don't sweat it. It was the least we could do.
Kita-san!
Come on, Spe-chan, don't cry.
Dia-chan, thanks for coming.
It's okay. Don't mention it.
Starting tomorrow, we'll resume
your training for the Japan Cup.
Right. Please make it more
intense than ever before.
I don't know...
I've made up my mind.
I want to put everything I have
into my last races. So, please...
Understood.
Thank you so much.
Cheval!
Did you see Kitasan's announcement?
Yeah, part of it.
I see.
I'm going to miss her. We've been
together all this time.
Miss her?
H
i
s
h
i
Groovy Sis...
Don't call me that!
Well, it's fine.
More importantly, you need to
maintain focus during training.
Otherwise you could unexpectedly get injured.
Is Kitasan's press conference bothering you?
It is.
I wasn't able to make it in time.
I promised that we would
run together someday.
I wanted to run with her and
compete against her again.
I can't help but regret that.
In a way, regrets are a kind
of hope for the future.
As long as you hold onto them, there's
a chance a twist of fate could lead to
them being realized some day.
Maybe you're right.
Shocking Press Conference
Kitasan Black
Announces Retirement
from the Twinkle Series
Upsy-daisy—ouch!
I went and did it...
Aw, I really went and did it.
A-Are you okay?
Oh, it's no big deal...
You're a student at Tracen Academy?
Yes! Starting in April.
You just need to unload
these boxes, right? Let me help!
No, no, I couldn't possibly...
I don't mind at all!
I'm pretty good at physical stuff!
Okay, let's do this!
You were a real lifesaver! Thanks, miss.
There's something my dad used to say.
When someone needs help, you help them.
If someone is sad, you laugh by their side.
That way, everyone can be happy and healthy!
I see...
Well, I'm heading off!
Oh, wait a sec! What's your name, miss?
I'm Kitasan Black.
Kita-chan's retiring from
the Twinkle Series.
Are you ever gonna stop moping?
It's just...
Kita-chan is going to be
racing for us two more times!
Do you really wanna watch her with
that sorry look on your face?
You're right.
All we can really do is cheer for her with
the same energy that she helps us with.
That's right! And if you get that, how
about you finish getting ready to open?
Right! Okay, let's do this!
Takeshi Greengrocers
I went and did it!
How many laps is this?
Three.
She used to be able to do that
without losing her breath.
You're right.
She's desperately struggling
against her own incoming decline.
And the only way to do that is
with diligent, ordinary training.
In that case, she'll be okay. Kita-chan's
got the diligence thing down to an art.
Yeah.
You're really fired up, Crown-chan.
Well, I don't want to lose again.
Before, at the Tennoushou,
I almost caught her.
Next time will be revenge... or so I thought.
Crown-san, you've raced
Kitasan Black-san six times
since you were both in the Classics, right?
We're from the same generation.
Rivals, but also friends.
And when I heard she was going
to retire... I don't know how to put it.
It's like finding out a kid is moving away
right after they said, "See you tomorrow."
Something like that.
But seeing how she's working
so hard for her last two races
has made me realize I should, too.
You've got a point.
Are you not entering, Dia?
The Arima Kinen.
I think it'll be your last
chance to run with Kitasan.
If you get put on the fan ballot...
I don't think I could put on
a very good race right now.
Because of what happened at
the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe?
Yeah...
The turf and altitude differences
made it feel like a different sport
altogether than in Japan.
In order to win the Prix
de l'Arc de Triomphe,
you need to be willing to abandon everything
you've built up until that point
and start your training over from scratch.
And even then, that's not
a guarantee you can win.
What should I be doing? What should
I be looking toward as I run forward?
Until I have an answer, I'm not
sure I can start moving on.
Well, you can take your
time and think about it.
I'm sure there's some stuff you
can only see when you stand still.
Thank you, Crown-chan.
Chevacchi, there you are!
You need something?
We're about to go get something
to eat. Do you want to join us?
I'm fine.
Aw, what's wrong, Chevacchi?!
Does your tummy hurt?
It's not that!
Right now, all of Cheval's
thoughts are focused on Kitasan.
How'd you—
Are you missing her? Or maybe sad?
I'm honestly mad.
When I heard Kitasan was quitting,
my reaction was, "Why?!"
I've never really beaten her.
And now she's going to just leave?
I understand how you feel.
When you think about them,
you're jealous and resentful.
But you can't help but think about them, can't tear your eyes away...
Your envy and admiration
get all mixed together,
and it almost feels like infatuation.
In my case, I never beat that person...
But you've still got a chance. Two, in fact.
Sis...
She's right!
More than me and even our sister,
when things get really desperate, you've always
been the most focused, Chevacchi!
Two more chances..
Umamusume
Pretty Derby
Now that I think about it, I've never
been good at dealing with her type.
Congratulations on enrolling
She's so bright, and active, and sociable.
Che... Cheval Grand.
My goal is to win a G1 race.
Nothing like me. Closer to the way
my big sister and Vivlos are.
Nice to meet you.
That's what she seemed like.
I'm Kitasan Black!
My goal is to be a strong,
glitzy horse girl like Tokai Teio!
First up, I want to win all my races
before winning the Classic Triple Crown!
It's nice to meet you all!
She had this big dream,
and she was proud of it.
She was tough, resilient, and strong.
She had everything I wished I did.
I was honestly so jealous.
I tried hard, despite my losses,
but I was never able to do it like she did.
She ran into her own hurdles too, but she
worked hard, so hard, and overcame them.
Which is why I thought...
I had to work hard too.
Because I didn't want to lose to her.
I wanted to win...
Against the girl who was called
the strongest of our generation.
I want to beat Kitasan Black!
No matter how many times she
one-ups me, I won't give up.
I can do it, too.
I can work hard. As hard as she does.
Work hard and get close,
and then closer, and then next time...
I'll finally pass the person I've
seen in front of me all this time!
We're here underneath an autumn sky,
with the fanfare ringing
loud throughout the track.
And soon the trademark domestic G1
race, the Japan Cup, will begin.
And I imagine the spotlight
will be on Kitasan Black.
Right. I'm sure there are many fans in the
stands who came to get a glimpse of her,
now that she's announced her
retirement from the Twinkle Series.
The horse girls make their way into the gate
with looks that convey their determination.
The most favored, Kitasan Black,
enters gate four.
The players have assembled. And last
into the gate is number 17, Big Subject.
And they're off.
In the initial fight for the lead, number
four, Kitasan Black, is making her play.
Hell yeah, good start!
Looks like she's focused!
Go!
I can still see Kitasan in front of me.
The same as usual. Kitasan
is pulling the rest of us.
But I won't let her get away today.
The Japan Cup tends to be
a high-level competition
featuring both domestic and
foreign G1 horse girls.
What brought this on?
Not only that, but at 2,400 meters of turf,
it's got a very orthodox
distance for the classics.
In other words, it's the same distance as
other top-tier international turf races,
like the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe.
There have been times when shocking
speeds led to record times here,
which requires high levels
of stamina in order to stay
in contention with these tough conditions—
What's wrong?
Kitasan Black only has two races left.
So we're going to burn every last
second into our memories.
Good point.
Good idea.
The pace today has the first 1,000
meters cleared in 60.2 seconds.
And setting that pace in
the lead is this runner!
The festival girl, Kitasan Black!
You can do it, Kita-chan!
Come on!
I couldn't manage in the Tennoushou...
but this time, I'm going to pass her!
Crown-san! Fight!
Kitasan Black is on the run,
with a lead of one and a half lengths.
In second place is Mushamusha,
and in third is Toujours.
On the inside, Cheval Grand
has moved into fourth.
Go, Cheval!
Hang in there, Chevacchi!
Kitasan Black...
I hate you.
You've got the exact opposite personality
as me, and everyone loves you.
There are always smiles and
energy all around you.
And even with someone like me, you were
never shy about getting up close.
We're down to the last 600 meters!
Kitasan Black is still out
in front as they transition
from the fourth corner into the straight!
Kitasan Black is in the lead!
She's standing boldly on top!
Whoa, there!
And there she goes!
It's Cheval Grand who emerges from the pack!
She's champing at Kitasan Black's heels!
Kitasan Black, I hate you.
Whenever I see you running in front of me,
it reminds me of how immature
and pitiful I am.
It was so annoying and irritating...
but also brilliant.
At some point, I couldn't
stop looking your way.
Here comes Cheval Grand!
Cheval Grand is moving up!
Kitasan Black, I hate you.
It's because of you that I've come so far.
Because you were there, I made
it to today without giving up.
Kitasan Black...
The truth is... I...
I've always...
loved you!
Whoa! And she's gaining ground!
Cheval Grand is showing
scorching acceleration!
The gap between her and Kitasan
Black is gradually shrinking!
It's Cheval Grand!
Cheval Grand is in the lead!
Kitasan Black has been passed for the lead!
On the outside, Ay Tanri
is also on the attack!
Will Kitasan Black fight back to the top?!
But Cheval Grand persists!
She's still in front!
Cheval Grand in the lead!
It's Cheval Grand!
And Cheval Grand crosses
the goal in first place!
With incredible competitors on her heels,
she earns her first G1 victory
here at the Japan Cup!
On her seventh attempt at a G1 race,
she has finally seized a win.
Passing the evasive Kitasan Black,
and outrunning Ay Tanri's
pursuit to clinch the race!
This has been a grand race indeed,
and she has proven her mettle today!
She really did it! Amazing, Cheval!
Congrats, Chevacchi! Now we've all got G1 wins!
I...
I did it.
Congratulations, Cheval-chan.
Thank you, Kitasan.
Kitasan...
I'm going to do it. I'll become a
great horse girl that surpasses you.
Nicely done! That was a great race!
We'll be back for the next one, too!
Good luck with the Arima Kinen!
This will be the last time, so we'll make
sure to cheer for you with everything!
The Arima Kinen...
That's right. Next time is...
Kita-chan...
The concert's over. What are
you still doing here?
I realized this would be
my last time racing in the
Tokyo Racecourse for the Twinkle Series,
so I wanted to take a good look at it.
I see.
This is where my debut race was, too.
I can still remember how excited I was.
And at the Derby... Dura-chan's
running was amazing.
Yeah.
And then the Fall Tennoushou, and the
Japan Cup... I ran a lot of G1 races here.
Yeah...
Hey, Dia-chan... remember when
I asked about how a last run must feel?
I think I understand now.
It's a really painful feeling.
Kita-chan...
I guess it really is over
after the next one.
I sure hope I can win the Arima Kinen.